---
title: 'Diver Training OUUEG offers'
date: '2025-08-27T09:33:06+01:00'
author: 'Marius Weber'
layout: page
---

All our courses are internationally recognised and accredited through [British Sub-Aqua Club (BSAC)](https://bsac.com).

## Our most common courses are:

### Try dive

Never dived before and want to see if it's for you? Then this is what you're
looking for. Our instructors will take you to the pool so you can experience the
weightless of diving and have fun in a joint underwater session.

Cost: £35 the coming academic year.

Prerequisite: you must be able to swim and be in good health.

### Ocean Diver

[BSAC Ocean
Diver](https://www.bsac.com/training/learn-to-scuba-dive/ocean-diver-course/) is
the entry level course. We take you from never having dived to being a safe
diver with an internationally recognised qualification. This course enables you
to join many club trips and dive around the world down to a depth of 20 m.
Typically, we also train you how to use a drysuit which helps keep you warm in
UK waters around the year.

The course consists of e-learning, 5–6 pool lessons and 4 open water lessons.

Costs vary based on training arrangements. Including course pack, pool costs,
equipment hire, travel and accommodation for open water training, costs are
typically in the £350 to £600 range.

Prerequisite: you must be able to swim 200 m unaided.

More info on [Ocean Diver course taught at OUUEG](/training/learn-to-dive.html).

### Drysuit Diver

Already a qualified diver, but want to learn how to use a drysuit that can keep
you warm when diving in the UK around the year? Then this is the course for you!

The course consists of 2 theory lectures, a shelter water lesson and an open
water lesson.

Course costs are typically £100 plus equipment hire.

Prerequisites: You must be a qualified diver. Entry level qualifications such as
Ocean diver, Open Water Diver, Advanced Open Water Diver, or equivalent are sufficient.

More info on [Dry Suit Diver course taught at OUUEG](/training/drysuit.html).

### Sports diver

[BSAC Sports Diver
course](https://www.bsac.com/training/diver-grade-courses/sports-diver) focuses
on rescue techniques and more advanced diving skills such as Delayed Surface
Marker Buoy (DSMB) deployment, and compass navigation.  Completing the course
enables you to conduct dives with limited decompression obligations, use Nitrox
up to 40%, and gradually extend your diving depth up to 40 m. A sports diver is
an asset to their diving team. Broadly speaking the sports diver is equivalent
to "Rescue Diver" in other training agencies.

The course consists of 5 classroom lessons, 1 sheltered water lesson and 5 open
water lessons.

Costs vary based on training site and how quickly students achieve appropriate
skills standards. Typically the costs (including course pack, transport,
accommodation, site entry, etc) are in the £300 to £500 range plus equipment
hire. Some of these lessons can also be conducted on regular fun diving trips.

Prerequisites: you must be a qualified diver. Entry level qualifications such as
Ocean diver, Open Water, or equivalent are sufficient.

More info on [Sports Diver course taught at OUUEG](/training/sports-diver.html).

### Boat handling

This course teaches you how to drive a small motor boat and special
considerations around diving operations from your boat. If you pass the Diving
Coxswain assessment, this gives you an international motorboat licence.

The course involves a series of classroom lessons and one or two days of
practical lessons — driving the actual boat!

Cost: varies based on transport, accommodation, and boat fuel prices, typically
around £150–250.

Prerequisites: none

## Diving with a purpose
### Seasearch

https://www.seasearch.org.uk/ Seasearch is a citizen science project that
surveys underwater habitats and builds a database that is used to designate
marine protected areas. With sufficient interest, we run courses that teach you
how to recognise, and record marine life and habitats. You can then use this on
your regular diving to contribute to this amazing project.

The course consists of classroom lessons and two supervised survey dives.

Prerequisite: Sports Diver, Rescue Diver, or equivalent.

### Basic Archaeological Diver

Do you like shipwrecks wrecks, archaeology, or both? This course introduces you to
simple techniques of surveying underwater archaeological sites.

The course contains a set of classroom lessons, a sheltered water lesson and
several open water practice survey dives.

Prerequisite: Sports Diver, Rescue Diver, or equivalent.

## Diver safety
### Oxygen administration

This course teaches you how to use emergency oxygen to support a diving
casualty.  The course consists of classroom lessons, a review of basic life
support and practicals with the oxygen kit.

Cost: around £50

Prerequisites: none

### Practical rescue management

This course focuses on managing rescue scenarios and maintaining oversight and
awareness of an incident scene. The course consists of classroom lessons, and
practical rescue scenarios in the water, on the water surface, and on the shore.

Cost: around £100 including course materials and transport

## More advanced diving

We can help you develop your diving skills further, and even start a journey into more
technical diving using twinsets or multiple gasses for accelerating
decompression. We can also support you in becoming a fully qualified diving instructor.

## How to learn more about OUUEG?

We welcome complete beginners, and also divers with any level of qualification
gained with any training agency and program. Just come and dive with us. To
enquire about training possibilities, email our [Training
Officer](training@ouueg.com).  However, the best way to learn more about our
club, diving we do, and training we offer, is to come to one (and more!) of our
socials and talk to our members (and volunteer instructors) in person.  Socials
are weekly and announced via our [WhatsApp
group](https://chat.whatsapp.com/JSQbXGhaopm6hOobraO6hU).
